To implement our delete functionality,
we're going to follow the same approach we did with our update functionality.
I'm going to start off by making sure that my server is stopped,
and then I'm going to open up our test and scroll to the
bottom of it and copy one of these existing tests that we
have and just paste it down below.
I'm going to change the name to testDelete.
And inside of here, the delete is actually quite simple.
We're just going to call the delete method with the URL
of the ID that we want to delete.
So we're going to say /delete and the actual ID of one
of the ones that we want to delete.
Now to figure out what that ID is,
I'm actually going to switch over to my MySQL Workbench
really quick and run a select statement and see what the last
created record I have in there is.
Your numbers may not be as high as mine because I have implemented the test a
few extra times just to see some test data that's out there,
but my last created record was 16.
Again, it doesn't matter if yours is 9, 10, 11, whatever.
I'm going to grab that number 16 there and we're going to switch
over and say that we want to delete that URL.
So localhost:8080/ride_tracker/delete/16,
and 16 is going to be the ID that we catch inside of our controller.
So let's save this, open up our controller,
and inside of here we're going to go ahead and grab this
getRide method that we've already created because we want to
grab a path variable just like this one.
Same thing, we'll go down to the bottom,
paste that in, and instead of it being a value of /ride,
we're going to do /delete and grab that ID and change
the request method to delete as well.
Now, for our return type we're going to just change this to Object,
and I'll explain why here in a little bit. We'll change the method
name to delete, and then we can change the code that calls our service
tier and our return down below.
Now as I mentioned a minute ago that we were going to return object type
from our body, and this actually has to do with the REST service and
returning a valid response versus an invalid response. And void will
return a 404 error. Don't worry about it now, we're going to go into this
deeper when we talk about exception handling in the next section, but
we'll just say rideService.deleteRide, and this doesn't currently exist.
We'll pass in the ID, and then we're going to below that say return null,
just like we did with the batch up above.
Now we can save this and click on the red X over in the left‑hand
column, and just like we've done in previous modules,
we're going to create that method deleteRide in our service tier.
And this is going to say void deleteRide and take an Integer id,
we'll save that, and now it will ask us to provide an
implementation in our RideServiceImpl.
I'm just going to scroll down to the bottom of here, hit Ctrl+spacebar, and
add the deleteRide functionality. And this will just call our
rideRepository.deleteRide, and it will take the ID as well.
We'll save this. And same as before, we'll click that red X and say
Create method deleteRide in our RideRepository.
Save that, and now we can add our implementation to our RideRepositoryImpl.
Now inside of here I'm going to scroll down to the bottom and
make sure I'm inside that closing curly brace, hit Ctrl+spacebar,
and add the deleteRide functionality in here. And now we can call
our jdbcTemplate update.
So we'll say jdbcTemplate.update.
And we're going to just pass inside of here some basic SQL of delete
from ride where id = ?, close that quote off, and then we're going to
pass in the id and close that statement off.
That's all we have to do to actually implement our delete
functionality inside of our repository.
I'm going to exit full screen, start our server backup,
make sure that there's no errors on startup,
everything looks good there. And then I'm going to switch back to our test and
make sure you've updated your ID with the correct one from your database, and
then I'm going to right‑click on my testDelete and say Run As, JUnit Test, and
when this is done I will see a green bar here and I can switch over to my MySQL
Workbench, execute that select statement again, and record 16 has been deleted
from our database.
It's pretty straightforward.
Let's walk through that again.
We went ahead and created that RestTemplate delete and we did URL rewriting
and just tacked the ID onto the end of there. Inside of our controller, we
have a delete method that we created that does URL rewriting and grabs an ID
off of that and then it uses the method type of delete and grabs that ID,
passing it to our service tier.
Our service tier passes that through to our repository where we now
implement our update to issue the delete statement,
passing that ID in.
In the next section, we're going to go through and show
you how to do the same thing using named parameters to get rid of that question mark.